<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Endnotes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="endnotes" epub:type="rearnotes">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Endnotes</h2>
			<ol>
				<li id="note-1" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>Whaling vessels are usually fitted with iron oil-tanks⁠—why the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Grampus</i> was not I have never been able to ascertain. <a href="../text/chapter-6.xhtml#noteref-1" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-2" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>The case of the brig <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Polly</i>, of Boston, is one so much in point, and her fate, in many respects, so remarkably similar to our own, that I cannot forbear alluding to it here. This vessel, of one hundred and thirty tons burden, sailed from Boston, with a cargo of lumber and provisions, for Santa Croix, on the twelfth of December, 1811, under the command of Captain Casneau. There were eight souls on board besides the captain⁠—the mate, four seamen, and the cook, together with a <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hunt, and a negro girl belonging to him. On the fifteenth, having cleared the shoal of Georges, she sprung a leak in a gale of wind from the southeast, and was finally capsized; but, the masts going by the board, she afterward righted. They remained in this situation, without fire, and with very little provision, for the period of one hundred and ninety-one days (from December the fifteenth to June the twentieth), when Captain Casneau and Samuel Badger, the only survivors, were taken off the wreck by the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Fame</i>, of Hull, Captain Featherstone, bound home from Rio Janeiro. When picked up, they were in latitude 28° N., longitude 13° W., having drifted above two thousand miles! On the ninth of July the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Fame</i> fell in with the brig <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Dromero</i>, Captain Perkins, who landed the two sufferers in Kennebeck. The narrative from which we gather these details ends in the following words:</p>
					<blockquote>
						<p>“It is natural to inquire how they could float such a vast distance, upon the most frequented part of the Atlantic, and not be discovered all this time. They were passed by more than a dozen sail, one of which came so nigh them that they could distinctly see the people on deck and on the rigging looking at them; but, to the inexpressible disappointment of the starving and freezing men, they stifled the dictates of compassion, hoisted sail, and cruelly abandoned them to their fate.”</p>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="../text/chapter-13.xhtml#noteref-2" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-3" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>Among the vessels which at various times have professed to meet with the Auroras may be mentioned the ship <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">San Miguel</i>, in 1769; the ship <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Aurora</i>, in 1774; the brig <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Pearl</i>, in 1779; and the ship <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Dolores</i>, in 1790. They all agree in giving the mean latitude fifty-three degrees south. <a href="../text/chapter-15.xhtml#noteref-3" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-4" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>The terms morning and evening, which I have made use of to avoid confusion in my narrative, as far as possible, must not, of course, be taken in their ordinary sense. For a long time past we had had no night at all, the daylight being continual. The dates throughout are according to nautical time, and the bearing must be understood as per compass. I would also remark, in this place, that I cannot, in the first portion of what is here written, pretend to strict accuracy in respect to dates, or latitudes and longitudes, having kept no regular journal until after the period of which this first portion treats. In many instances I have relied altogether upon memory. <a href="../text/chapter-18.xhtml#noteref-4" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-5" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>This day was rendered remarkable by our observing in the south several huge wreaths of the grayish vapour I have spoken of. <a href="../text/chapter-23.xhtml#noteref-5" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-6" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>The marl was also black; indeed, we noticed no light colored substances of any kind upon the island. <a href="../text/chapter-24.xhtml#noteref-6" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-7" epub:type="rearnote">
					<p>For obvious reasons I cannot pretend to strict accuracy in these dates. They are given principally with a view to perspicity of narrative, and as set down in my pencil memorandum. <a href="../text/chapter-25.xhtml#noteref-7" epub:type="se:referrer">↩</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
